responsive search ads are already
google's preferred option for setting ad
copies in google ads and by june 30 this
year they will become the only option
and that's because on june 30 google
will removing the option for you to be
able to edit or add new expanded text
ads while personally i prefer the option
of having both responsive search ads and
expanded text ads this will no longer be
an option but rather than whinging and
screaming and calling at the end of
google ads and saying that we're losing
the option for split testing forever in
the last six months since google has
made this announcement i have personally
been split testing different options
across over 50 different google ads
campaigns in all different niches and in
all different locations and the good
news is is that i found a way for you to
be able to split test your ad copies in
google ads even with responsive search
ads this was the core concern when
google made this announcement about
removing expanded text ads and switching
over to responsive search ads only is
that us as advertisers would lose that
ability to conduct important split tests
on an ad copy and the reason for this is
because in order to be able to see
different results of the different
descriptions and headlines that google
is showing to your customers you need to
have at least 5 000 impressions in a
30-day period and then on top of that if
you add even did have 5000 impressions
in that 30-day period you wouldn't get
full data you would just get this little
metric of google letting you know which
ad was performing the best and which ad
was performing good and which ad was
performing poor so not the same level of
data that we're getting with expanded
text ads where we could see a direct
correlation between the headlines that
we're using our click-through rates and
also our conversion rates and the reason
for why i've waited till now to share
this video is because i first wanted to
have some data in order to be able to
show you that you don't need to worry
even with the coming change of
responsive search ads you can still
complete all the required split testing
while still getting the exact data that
you need in order to be able to make
decisions and on top of that i can also
report that since december my responsive
search ads have actually been getting
better results than my expanded text ads
in the majority of my campaigns so that
you too can also see the same results in
your own google ads campaigns and to
make sure that you're ready for june 30
this year in this video i'm going to
take you through the difference between
responsive search ads and expanded text
ads how responsive search ads work a
simple and quick process to actually set
up your responsive search ads and then
finally how you can complete the
required split testing for your
responsive search ads to ensure that
you're seeing the highest level of
success in your google ads campaigns if
you don't know who i am my name is aaron
young and i'm your 15 000 google ads
master while we're going through this
training if you have any specific
questions that you would like answered
in regards to responsive search ads and
how you can best make them work in your
account i would love to answer them for
you to get your questions answered all
you need to do is to quickly subscribe
to my channel and then leave your
question in the comment section below
alrighty let's get into this training so
what i want to do firstly is to quickly
take you through the difference between
expanded text ads and responsive search
ads so expanded text ads have one url
you can add three headlines and then you
can also add two descriptions and on top
of your two descriptions you can also
add two different display paths and with
your expanded text ad all of these
assets so your headlines and your
descriptions are shown in the order that
you choose but when we go over to our
responsive search ads they are the same
that you can only have one final url but
rather than being only able to add three
headlines you can actually add up to 15
different headlines and for your
descriptions rather than two you can add
up to four different descriptions with
once again the option of only adding in
two different display parts and then
these next couple of points is where
there are some large differences between
expanded text ads and responsive search
ads and the first thing is that your
assets can actually be shown in any
order so you need to make sure that all
of your headlines and your descriptions
make sense regardless of which order
they are shown and then on top of that
google actually displays your headlines
and descriptions in different orders so
that it can complete its own split
testing so that's a list of the
differences between expanded text ads
and responsive search ads but now let's
go into the google ads dashboard so i
can actually show you how responsive
search ads work now we do have to make
it clear that your customer will
actually not know whether they're
looking at a responsive search ad or an
expanded text ad and the reason for that
is because what the customer sees is
actually the same in that your ads will
actually still have three headlines and
two descriptions whether they're seeing
a mobile ad or a desktop ad with the
difference being in the setup of those
ads in that in your responsive search
ads is that you've actually got up to 15
different headlines that you can add and
up to four different descriptions that
you can add and then from these
collection of 15 headlines and four
descriptions google will automatically
go through and start displaying some
different headlines and different
descriptions in different combinations
to actually find out which combination
of headlines and descriptions works best
in regards to click-through ratios and
also conversion rates and google makes
these decisions based on the searches
search term the searches search history
data and also the historic performance
of the ad so for example if google sees
that the headline services starting from
just 99
leads to higher click through ratios and
also higher conversion rates when shown
in position 3 google will automatically
start to show that headline in position
3 more often than not so with responsive
search ads google does have some
built-in split testing which will show
different ads to different people
depending on their own search history
and also the historical performance of
the ads before we get into the process
of setting up your responsive search ads
and how to actually run split testing in
your search ads i did want to let you
know about my google ads optimization
checklist and this is a checklist that i
still use today and that you can have
for free and this checklist actually
gives you a list of what you need to
optimize in your google ads account
every week every month and every 90 days
so after you've finished watching this
video why don't you follow the link in
the description so you can get your very
own google ads optimization checklist
which will help you carry out the
required optimizations in your google
ads account so that you can improve its
performance and ultimately create more
sales and leads for your business so
let's now talk about how you actually
set up responsive search ads in your
google ads account if you've ever set up
expanded text ads before the process for
setting up responsive search ads is
actually pretty much the same except
rather than adding only three headlines
and two descriptions you've got options
to add the extra headlines and the extra
descriptions so what we need to do is we
need to go into our campaigns then go
into our ad groups and go into the
individual ad group that you want to add
in the expanded text ads going into ads
and extensions and then when you click
on this blue create add button it'll
automatically give you the option to set
up a new responsive search ad and then
from this screen you can go through and
add in your headlines and your
descriptions press save and then the
setup is complete now that you know how
responsive search ads work and how you
can actually go about setting them up in
your own google ads account let's talk
about how you can complete that
all-important process of split testing
your ads in google ads and for all of
the hyperbola and all the over top
reactions that the world is falling in
and we can't complete any more split
testing for our ad copy and google ads
the process isn't actually that hard at
all and the reason for that is that
you're still able to run multiple
different responsive search ads in the
same ad group and then on top of that
you can actually pin in the different
headlines and descriptions so that those
ads can function in exactly the same
ways expanded text ads so in short even
though you have the ability of adding up
to 15 different headlines and up to four
different descriptions you can still
create an ad where you're only adding
three headlines and then google also
gives you the option to pin those
headlines in either position one two or
three and by also following that process
in the descriptions you can decide by
pinning which description you want to
show in position one and which
description you want to show in position
two so let's take a look at how we would
complete that so to complete this
process we just want to go into the ad
group where we're going to complete the
split testing select one of our
responsive search ads and then from
there we want to go up into edit select
copy close this blue notification bar
and then click on these three little
dots for more options click paste and
then from there we just want to make
sure that this is in the right ad group
which it is then we click done and then
from there before you click on this
paste button you just want to go through
and actually select this option where it
says that if the ad already exists in
the destination create a duplicate we've
selected that then we press paste and
then you can see from here we've never
actually got a secondary response a
search ad where we can complete our
split testing so all we need to do is to
go into edit and from here we can make
those decisions that if we want to pin
some certain ads we can actually say
that we only want these to appear in
position one and for example if we want
these first two headlines to only appear
in position one we can pin both of these
in position one and then from there you
can actually see that our first headline
is only saying aircon cleaning or air
conditioner cleaning brisbane and no
other headline options will appear and
then for the rest of these headlines and
descriptions we can either remove them
or edit them and then pin in as many
headlines that we want to appear in
position one position two or position
three and if we wanted our responsive
searches to actually function like an
expanded text ad we're only testing one
headline in position one and another
headline in position two and then a
third position in headline three we can
actually just go through and make those
changes so that we're manually creating
an expanded text ad so if we wanted to
just use these three headlines we can
add in those three headlines removing
all of the others and then go through
and pin in which headline we want to
show in position one which headline we
want to show on position two and which
headline we want to show on position
three and then with this setup
regardless of which different option we
use you can see that we're always
displaying the same headline in position
one position two and position three and
then we can complete that same process
for the descriptions and then from there
we click save and then once this ad is
approved we can then actually go through
look at the data and we'll be able to
see exactly the different clicks and
impressions click-through ratio and
ultimately our conversion metrics to see
how our ads actually perform with this
responsive ad with set headlines and
descriptions versus our other ads
including our expanded text ads or a
responsive search ad which has a more
flexible approach so moving forward with
the change to responsive search ads i
actually see that you have two different
options for completing your split
testing with your ad copy the first
option is is where you actually update
your responsive search ads so that they
function like an expanded text ad and
this would be the process where you
would copy and edit three different
versions of a sponsor search ad with
each individual search ad having pinned
headlines and pin descriptions so that
you're dictating to google which
positions you want each individual
headline and description showing in
google ads and this would be a great
option for new ad groups or keyword
targets that you're running where you
don't have any previous data on one of
the best converting headlines and
descriptions for individual search terms
and then the second option to complete
split testing with the response of
search ads would be to have one
responsive search ad which has no pinned
headlines and no pin descriptions and
then you would have a secondary response
to search ad which would have some
pinned headlines and pin descriptions so
that you can get some exact further data
on which headlines and descriptions are
actually providing the highest
click-through ratios and conversion
rates and then with this process once
you get a confirmation of a highly
performing headline and a highly
performing description you can then add
that back to your original responsive
search ad so that eventually your
original responsive search ad which has
no pin headlines and no pin descriptions
only has headlines and descriptions
which have proven data and you know that
they convert at a high level and also
provide you high click-through ratios so
regardless of which option you take
option one or option two you still have
some really strong options to complete
that valuable split testing that you
need in order to see success with your
google ads campaigns so from those two
options you can see that you have a
really clear option to complete your
split testing in google ads regardless
of the incoming change on june 30 this
year and why don't you let me know which
option you're going to use either option
one or option two and leave it in the
comments below now a lot of people are
aware of this incoming change to your ad
copy but what many people don't know is
that google actually made a massive
change to keyword targeting and that
change is actually already live in your
google ads account right now and it has
been since september last year so if you
don't know what that change is and what
you need to do in your google ads
account what i want you to do is to go
through and watch this video right here
where i detail what the change is but
more importantly what changes you need
to make in your google ads account so
that you can continue to see some great
results thank you for joining me again i
look forward to seeing you in my next
video